README.md, before:

# Grade Fetcher XBlock

By adding this XBlock to a course unit you can fetch grades from an external system for a corresponding problem(s) in Open edX and another system and grade users in Open edX based on what recieved from the external system.

## Fields
1. Display Name: Title of the XBlock in the Studio
2. Title: Title of the XBlock in the LMS (Title that appears to the students)
3. Button Text: Text that appears on the button that triggers the grader endpoint
4. User Identifier: The external system needs to recognize the user by this identifier, you can choose email, username, user_id or anonyomous_student_id. The actual value comes from what we have in Open edX.
5. User identifier parameter name: This is the parameter name that we wrap the user identifier in.
6. Authentication Endpoint: If your system requieres authentication you should set this. If not the call will be made directly to the grader endpoint.
7. Client ID: OAuth2 Client ID for Auth endpoint
8. Client Secret: OAuth2 Client Secret for Auth endpoint
9. Authentication Username: Username for Auth endpoint
10. Authentication Password: Password for Auth endpoint
11. API Key: If the grader enpoint requieres an API key in the header as `X-API-Key` you should set this.
12. Grader Endpoint: The endpoint that will be called to fetch grades.
13. Activity Identifier: The identifier of the problem in the external system. If you need to fetch grades for multiple problems you have to setup your system in a way to interpret this parameter as a range of problems. For example if the value is `4` your system can send back assignment 1 to 4 grades
14. Activity Identifier parameter name: This is the parameter name that we wrap the activity identifier in.
15. Extra Parameters: Any extra parameters that you want to send to the grader endpoint.

## Workflow

### Authentication
TO-DO

### Fetching grades

After filling all the required fields in studio by clicking on Grade me button if the authentication is requiered we first make an call the auth endpoint, recieve a token and after that we construct an HTTP request to the grader endpoint based on the parameters and their values you have set in studio.

The external system should return a JSON with the following structure:

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "assignment_id": 1,
            "grade": 1,
            "assignment_title": "Create Org Unit Group Sets and Assign OU Groups to them.",
            "reason": "User created at least one child org unit under their root."
        },
        {
            "assignment_id": 2,
            "grade": 0,
            "assignment_title": "Create Org Units and Assign OU Groups to them.",
            "reason": "All of the user's org units are assigned to 1 or more of their org unit groups."
        },
        {
            "assignment_id": 3,
            "grade": 1,
            "assignment_title": "Create Org Unit Group Sets and Assign OU Groups to them.",
            "reason": "User Created at least two organisation unit group sets and they have 2 or more (>= 2) Org Unit Groups Assigned."
        },
        {
            "assignment_id": 4,
            "grade": 1,
            "assignment_title": "Create the six specified data elements.",
            "reason": "User created the six specified data elements."
        }
    ]
}
```

`assignment_id` , `grade` and `reason` are required in the response. Please make sure your system returns these parameters.

[Here](https://48oj7cnxk4.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/default/external-grading-system?unit_id=4) is an example of the response. By filling the fields 4, 5, 12, 13 and 14 in the [Fields](#Fields) section, you can see a demo of how this XBlock works.


## How to add translation

- If you made any changes in the translation files make sure to run `msgfmt text.po -o text.mo` locally in the `gradefetcher/translations/fr_CA/LC_MESSAGES/` folder or other languages folder to update the language files and after that push the changes to the branch.
- Make a deployment via ansible using the ansible tag `install:app-requirements`.
- Restart Open edX services on the server.

# Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

Commit message:

docs: add installation and setup instructions to README

README.md, after:

# Grade Fetcher XBlock

By adding this XBlock to a course unit you can fetch grades from an external system for a corresponding problem(s) in Open edX and another system and grade users in Open edX based on what recieved from the external system.

## Installation and Setup

To use the Grade Fetcher XBlock, you first need to install it in your Open edX environment and then enable it within your course.

### 1. Installation

Install this XBlock by adding this repository to your Open edX list of dependencies. Then rebuild the Open edX image and restart your Open edX services.

### 2. Enable in Studio

Once installed, you must enable the XBlock in each course where you intend to use it.

1.  In Open edX Studio, navigate to the course you want to modify.
2.  Go to **Settings** > **Advanced Settings**.
3.  Find the policy key for **Advanced Module List**.
4.  Add `"gradefetcher"` to the list of module keys. For example:

    ```json
    [
        "word_cloud",
        "gradefetcher"
    ]
    ```

5.  Click **Save Changes** at the bottom of the page.

After saving, "Grade Fetcher" will appear in the "Advanced" section when you add a new component to a unit.

## Fields
1. Display Name: Title of the XBlock in the Studio
2. Title: Title of the XBlock in the LMS (Title that appears to the students)
3. Button Text: Text that appears on the button that triggers the grader endpoint
4. User Identifier: The external system needs to recognize the user by this identifier, you can choose email, username, user_id or anonyomous_student_id. The actual value comes from what we have in Open edX.
5. User identifier parameter name: This is the parameter name that we wrap the user identifier in.
6. Authentication Endpoint: If your system requieres authentication you should set this. If not the call will be made directly to the grader endpoint.
7. Client ID: OAuth2 Client ID for Auth endpoint
8. Client Secret: OAuth2 Client Secret for Auth endpoint
9. Authentication Username: Username for Auth endpoint
10. Authentication Password: Password for Auth endpoint
11. API Key: If the grader enpoint requieres an API key in the header as `X-API-Key` you should set this.
12. Grader Endpoint: The endpoint that will be called to fetch grades.
13. Activity Identifier: The identifier of the problem in the external system. If you need to fetch grades for multiple problems you have to setup your system in a way to interpret this parameter as a range of problems. For example if the value is `4` your system can send back assignment 1 to 4 grades
14. Activity Identifier parameter name: This is the parameter name that we wrap the activity identifier in.
15. Extra Parameters: Any extra parameters that you want to send to the grader endpoint.

## Workflow

### Authentication
TO-DO

### Fetching grades

After filling all the required fields in studio by clicking on Grade me button if the authentication is requiered we first make an call the auth endpoint, recieve a token and after that we construct an HTTP request to the grader endpoint based on the parameters and their values you have set in studio.

The external system should return a JSON with the following structure:

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "assignment_id": 1,
            "grade": 1,
            "assignment_title": "Create Org Unit Group Sets and Assign OU Groups to them.",
            "reason": "User created at least one child org unit under their root."
        },
        {
            "assignment_id": 2,
            "grade": 0,
            "assignment_title": "Create Org Units and Assign OU Groups to them.",
            "reason": "All of the user's org units are assigned to 1 or more of their org unit groups."
        },
        {
            "assignment_id": 3,
            "grade": 1,
            "assignment_title": "Create Org Unit Group Sets and Assign OU Groups to them.",
            "reason": "User Created at least two organisation unit group sets and they have 2 or more (>= 2) Org Unit Groups Assigned."
        },
        {
            "assignment_id": 4,
            "grade": 1,
            "assignment_title": "Create the six specified data elements.",
            "reason": "User created the six specified data elements."
        }
    ]
}
```

`assignment_id` , `grade` and `reason` are required in the response. Please make sure your system returns these parameters.

[Here](https://48oj7cnxk4.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/default/external-grading-system?unit_id=4) is an example of the response. By filling the fields 4, 5, 12, 13 and 14 in the [Fields](#Fields) section, you can see a demo of how this XBlock works.


## How to add translation

- If you made any changes in the translation files make sure to run `msgfmt text.po -o text.mo` locally in the `gradefetcher/translations/fr_CA/LC_MESSAGES/` folder or other languages folder to update the language files and after that push the changes to the branch.
- Make a deployment via ansible using the ansible tag `install:app-requirements`.
- Restart Open edX services on the server.

# Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)
